#summary This page gives an overview of the migration module of CS Iframe.
#labels password,csiframe,cryptography

= Introduction =

The migration module (just called "the module" hereafter) enables the migration of currently stored cipher texts (encrypted passwords) to be based on a new cipher. For a general introduction to ciphers, please go to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cipher. The module can also migrate the cipher texts calculated by one key to be recalculated using a new key.

The purpose of the module is to retain or increase security even if threats are encountered. Security and cryptography is a dynamic field and what is considered safe today may not be considered safe tomorrow.

= Details =

To migrate a set of cipher texts an implementation of `CryptoUtil` are chosen to decrypt the current cipher texts and another implementation is chosen to encrypt the passwords to new cipher texts.

To run the application, follow the instructions in the doc/README.txt file.

The module is implemented to migrate between cipher texts based on AES encryption with ECB and CTR block mode (both ways). In addition it is possible to migrate cipher texts based on AES/CTR to a new key. When a new key is created the module outputs (to standard output) the filename of the new key. The old key file should be replaced by the new key file manually in order to make the portlet module of this project work. No restart of the portlet should be necessary. When a migration between different block modes is made it is important that the portlet is configured to use the implementation of `CryptoUtil` which handles the right block mode.